01-22-2024 

# Chpt. 3 - Cells

## Cell Components

Q. Regions of the ER with few if any bound ribosomes referred to as:
A. **Smooth ER**
	- Lipids
	- rough: synthesis of proteins

Q. Which of following is not a function of plant cell vacuoles?
A. **Storage of ATP**
	- it does regulates cell pressure, regulates pH, stores waste products
	- ATP is produced in breakdown of carbs and used, not stored

Q. Which of following organelles is involved in releasing energy through cellular respiration?
A. **Mitochondria**
	- Chloroplasts makes ATP for photosynthetic process

## Cell respiration

- Cell Cycle - split to two phases:
	- **Mitosis** - cell replication through division
	- During **Interphase** (no replication)
		- G1 Cells increase in size
		- S DNA replication takes place
		- G2 Mitochondria divide and microtubules are produces
	- At end: get two cells identicle to original

- **Mitosis** - Happens in Meristems, only in specific parts of plants (tips)
	- Seperated to four phases:
	- **Prophase** - Chromosomes condense by coiling, tighter and thicker, Nuclear envelope dissociates
	- **Metaphase** - (middle) chormosomes align in middle
	- **Anaphase** - chromotids seperate in unison, after division chromotids calledaugher cells
	- **Telophase** - spindles shorten, cell wall forms inbetween daughter cells, divides the full cell to make two

Q. G1, S, G2 are collectively known as what?
A. **Interphase**
	- `During what stage is plant doing its DNA replication?`  <- potential quiz Q.

Q. What process during Interphase enables Mitosis to result in identical Daugher Cells?
A. **DNA Replication**
	- Two identical copies of same thing

Q. During Mitosis in plant cell, two daughter c's are produced. What descrives their genetic material?
A. Each daughter cell has same number of chromosomes and distro of DNA as parent.

Organelles during mitosis - squished around edges and end up on whichever side

## Plant cells vs. Animal Cells

- Plant cells
	- Cell walls
	- Plastids and vacuoles

- Animal Cells
	- Internal or external skeleton
	- cell membrane

# Chpt. 4 - Tissues

## Intro to Tissues

- Four major organs:
	- Roots
	- Stems
	- Leaves
	- sometimes FLowers

## Roots and stems

- 3 Tissues
	- Woody dicots
	- herabeous dicots
	- monocots - not all monocots are grasses but all grass = monocots

## Meristmatic Tissues

- Meristems - Regions of permenant growth
	- **Apical** - tips, get longer
		- primary growth
		- where new leaves are produced
		- tissues produced = protoderm (epidermis), ground (inside), procambium (where lateral is)
	- **Lateral** - grow diameter
		- Secondary growth - mainly for wood production
		- two tissues - **vascular cambium** (seperate root from bark, contain vains), **cork cambium** (produces replacement for epidermus, bark)
	- **Intercalary** - found in monocots
		- happens in grasses (bamboo is an example)
		- similar to lateral but divides and lengthens, like inbetween nodes on bamboo

Q. Which of following not in major groups of organs in plants?
A. **Buds**
	- places where you might find apical growth

Q. In plants, cell division concentrated in regions of permenant growth called:
A. **Meristems**

Q. Where are apical meristems located?
A. **At the tips of stems AND roots**

Q. Secondary growth refers to increase in diameter or girth of roots an stems as a result of tissues produced in `___` meristems?
A. **Apical**

## Next Steps

- All tissues develop from meristems

- Simple Tissues:
	- Parenchyma
		- rounded shaped, same on all sides
		- typical cell structure, large vacuole
		- chloroplast cells found here, cells with functions
		- made of parenchyma cells
		- thin pliable walls
		- **Chlorenchyma** - cells that contain chloroplasts
	- Collenchyma
		- Structural cells - used for support
		- ellongated tubes
		- like end of nose, squishy but keeps shape
		- like cellary strings, flexible support
	- Sclerenchyma
		- rigid tough cells: Schlerids(peanut husk or peach pit)  and fibers(long)
		- dead at maturity
		- hollow tubes

- Complex tissues:
	- Vascular:
		- Xylem - dead at maturity, transports water and minerals that are taken in by roots
			- also parenchyma, fibers and ray cells
			- composed of vessels - vessels are harder than tracheids
			- tracheids tapered at ends with pits
		- Phloam - moves sugars from synthetic tissues to all other tissues
			- composed of sieve tube memebers and companion cells
			- alive at maturity
		- tramport water, ions and soluble food through plants
		- in woody plants, complexes made by vascular cambium

Q. What are most common cells found in plants?
A. **Parenchyma Cells** 

Q. Which of following is not function of Parenchyma?
A. **Structural support**
	- Parenchymas do provide nutrient support, water storage, & photosynthesis

SOTW, quiz, exam 1 and Chp 5 ebook assignment

Q. Collenchyma cells provide:
A. **Flexible Support**
	- Sclerenchyma provide protection and rigid support
