01-24-2024

# Exam Review

[lecture slides](

## Complex Tissues

- xylem: for minerals
	- produced by vascular cambium (lateral meristem)
	- dead at maturity
	- Vessels
		- long tubes of vessel elements
		- perforated
	- Tracheids
		- Tapered at ends
	- Also have water transport cells such as parenchyma(storage), fibers and ray cells
- phloem: carries sugars, carbs
	- alive at maturity

- Surface layers:
	- **epidermis**: outer layer of plant (similar to skin)
		- **Cutin**: waterproofing/sunscreen, waxy layer(lipid) that forms **cuticle**
			- prevents water loss
			- provide uv protection
		- **stoma**: allow intentional loss of water, take in CO2 and emit H2O
			- open spaces on plant
		- **trichomes**: hairs on surface for protection/secretion
			- cannabis' main interest (THC secretion)
		- **Root hairs**: increase surface areas and absorbotive properties of the plant
	- **periderm**: seconday growth (pretty much only on wood)
		- Thick protection - like bark on tree
		- **lenticle** - arranged pocket of parenchyma that allow gaseous exchange

# Kahoot review

### Chapter 1

Q. Whats first step of sciencitfic method?
A, **asking question**

Q. Which group in experiment doesnt receive treatment?
A. **control**

Q. In science, group of principles/generalizations is known as:
A. theory

Q. Study of internal structure of plants:
A. **plant anatomy**

Q. study of interaction of plants with one another and environment:
A. **ecology**

### Chapter 2

Q. Structure of molecules in living organisms is:
A. **structured and complex**

Q. Which is true of plant growth?
A. controlled by genetics and environment

Q. which bonds formed when attraction between oppositely charged ions?
A. Ionic

Q. What occurs when water molecules attracted to other water molecules?
A. Cohesion

Q. first law of thermodynamics
A. energy constant, cant be gained or lost

Q. Collective product of all biochemical reactions in an organism?
- A. Metabolism
	- Reproduction, growth, adaptation are attributes of all living things

Q. Starches, carbs are `___` that consist of thousands of coiled glucose units?
- A. polysacharides
	- sucrose, made of fructose/glucose is disaccharide: two molecules

Q. `___` speeds up chemical reactions without being used up in the reaction?
- A. enzymes
	- reduce activation energy

Q. Fatty/oily water insoluble substances that store twice as much as similaramount of carbs?
A. lipids

### Chapter 3

Q. which is found in both eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells?
A. DNA 

Q. whats two most important functions of the cell wall?
- A. protection and support
	- only in plant cells

Q. Regions of ER with few if any bound ribosomes are:
- A. smooth ER
	- ribosomes synthesize 

Q. which is found only in plant cells?
- A. plasmodesmata
	- allow communication between cells
	- mitochondria, nucleous, and ribosomes in both

Q. ID functions of plant cell vacuoles
A. regulation of pH, storage of waste, regulate cell pressure

Q. G1, S, g2 are collectively known as:
- A. Interphase
	- photosynthesizing, DNA replication(ensures same amount of chromosomes after division) happen here

Q. Two daughter cells produced in mitosis have: 
A. same number of chromosomes as parent

### Chapter 4 Review

Q. Cell division concentrated in regions of permenant growth called:
A. meristems

Q. where are apical meristems located?
A. tips of leaves and roots

Q. Secondary growth = increase in diameter of roots and stems because of tissues produced in:
A. Lateral meristems

Q. Select all functions of parenchyma cells:
A. storage and photosynthesis

Q. Collenchyma provide what:
A. flexible support

Q. which tyoes of cells are found in xylem? 
A. vessels, fibers ,tracheids

Q. In wood plants cork cambium produces new tissues that increase girth and replace epidermis with:
A. periderm
